[2021-09-20] Announce beginning of Jenkins Election 2021 (#4559)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2021/09/2021-09-20-election-period-opened.adoc

---
:layout: post
:title: "Jenkins Election 2021"
:tags:
- community
- governance
- governance-board
- elections
authors:
- olblak
description: >
  2021 Jenkins Board and Officer elections. Nominations and voter registration are open!
links:
  discourse: true
opengraph:
  image: /images/governance/elections/2021/opengraph.png
---

image:/images/logos/needs-you/Jenkins_Needs_You-transparent.png[role="center", height=300, float="right", align="center"]

Dear all,

Time flies and the Jenkins elections period is here.

This year, two board seats and all officer positions are up for election.

> Thanks, link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev] and link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/uhafner/[Ullrich Hafner] who led the Jenkins project as board members for the last two years. 

Reviewer: Bonus points for remoting links

> Thanks, link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev] and link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/uhafner/[Ullrich Hafner] who led the Jenkins project as board members for the last two years. 

Reviewer 2: Site local links
```suggestion
Thanks, link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev] and link:/blog/authors/uhafner/[Ullrich Hafner] who led the Jenkins project as board members for the last two years. 
```

> Thanks, link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb], link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[Daniel Beck], link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] for your dedication as officers over the past year.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks, link:/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb], link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[Daniel Beck], link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] for your dedication as officers over the past year.
```

We already had two successful editions in a row. I want us to continue on that path.
This is a tremendous opportunity for community members to influence the direction of the project for the next two years.
To make this year’s election even better, we slightly modified the process by leveraging our new community platform aka link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io].

To participate in the election, we ask every Jenkins community member to have an account on link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io].
You can either reuse your Github account or create a new discourse account specific to link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io].

> The second requirement is to be able to showcase at least one contribution done before the first of September 2021.

Author: We ask voters to have contributed to Jenkins at least once before the first of September. In the past we asked to have at least one year of seniority, then it became 6months and I think last year, it went down to the 1st of September.
More information [here](https://www.jenkins.io/project/board-election-process/#voter-sign-up-and-eligibility)

As mentioned on link:/participate/[jenkins.io.io/participate], they are many different ways to contribute to Jenkins and for many of them, it’s very difficult to measure.
Therefore we’ll trust participants and will not require that they provide evidence of contribution as part of their voter registration. We reserve the right to ban the specific account from the election process if we identify abuse.
The election works in three stages:

. Identify voters and nominees
. Voting period
. Announce results

## Voters 

To invite participants to vote, we need a list of email’s addresses that we would share with the link:https://civs.cs.cornell.edu[Condorcet Internet Voting Service].

> Therefore we ask every community members who match the requirement to join the group link:https://community.jenkins.io/g/election-voter[election-voter] on link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io] .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore we ask every community member who matches the requirements to join the group link:https://community.jenkins.io/g/election-voter[election-voter] on link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io] .
```

The group will be open for joining during the registration period after we’ll close registration during the voting period.
We’ll use emails from the “election-voter” group members.

## Nominees

During the same period, we invite every community member to nominate candidates by sending a message to the group link:https://community.jenkins.io/g/election-committee[election-committee] mentioning the position and the motivation.

> On the 31 of October, the nomination period is over. We’ll notify every nominees and get confirmation that they are interested in running as a candidate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the 31 of October, the nomination period will end. We’ll notify all the nominees and get confirmation that they are interested in running as a candidate.
```

The list of candidates will be announced on the 7th of November.

**Everybody can nominate candidates.**

This year we are looking for nominees for the following positions:

> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/governance/#governance-board[Board members]
> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer]
> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer]
> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer]
> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#release[Release Officer]
> - link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer]

Reviewer 2: Generally prefer site local links so that we can test the links locally while running a local copy
```suggestion
- link:/project/governance/#governance-board[Board members]
- link:/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer]
- link:/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer]
- link:/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer]
- link:/project/team-leads/#release[Release Officer]
- link:/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer]
```

> More information about the different roles can be found on link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/[jenkins.io/project/team-leads].

Reviewer 2: Site local link
```suggestion
More information about the different roles can be found on link:/project/team-leads/[jenkins.io/project/team-leads].
```

## Election

On the 7th of November, once voters and candidates are identified, we’ll invite everybody by email to vote using link:https://civs.cs.cornell.edu[civs.cs.cornell.edu].
At this stage of the election, nobody will be allow to register.
Voting deadline is the 30th of November.

## Result

As soon as we have the election results, we’ll publish them.
Elected members will begin their official roles on the 3rd of December 2021.

## Key Dates

> * Sep 20: Nomination and voter registration begin

Author: September the first is the seniority requirement to participate to the election

> Elected members will officially be the new officer/board member on the 3rd of December 2021.

Reviewer 2: Alternate phrasing for consideration
```suggestion
Elected members will begin their official roles on the 3rd of December 2021.
```

---
:layout: post
:title: "Jenkins Election 2021"
:tags:
- community
- governance
- governance-board
- elections
authors:
- olblak

> description: >

Reviewer: We also need opengraph IMHO

Author: Indeed it's missing at this stage, I am working on it

Reviewer 2: In case it helps, we've used the ["Jenkins Social Media Covers" slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Q1PgNnRTgzBpVRXPqQo3PudzCa2eoc6_1_NRjFRMLrU/edit#slide=id.g778409cba7_0_46) to assemble opengraph images for other blog posts

Author: Thank you @MarkEWaite for the suggestion, I created an image based on your slide

  2021 Jenkins Board and Officer elections. Nominations and voter registration are open!
links:
  discourse: true
---

image:/images/logos/needs-you/Jenkins_Needs_You-transparent.png[role="center", height=300, float="right", align="center"]

Dear all,

Time flies and the Jenkins elections period is there.
We already had two successful editions in a row. I want us to continue on that path.
This is a tremendous opportunity for community members to influence the direction of the project for the next two years.
To make this year’s election even better, we slightly modified the process by leveraging our new community platform aka link:https://community.jenkins.io[community.jenkins.io].

> 

Reviewer: Add a paragraph explaining whose seats will be up for reelection? It is @uhafner , me, and all officers

Author: Done on this [commit](https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/4559/commits/0f2335315fb7fd6aefa17db02fc1f696a57fff74)

- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/governance/#governance-board[Board members]
- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer]
- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer]
- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer]
- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#release[Release Officer]
- link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer]

More information about the different roles can be found on link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/team-leads/[jenkins.io/project/team-leads].

## Election

On the 7th of November, once voters and candidates are identified, we’ll invite everybody by email to vote using link:https://civs.cs.cornell.edu[civs.cs.cornell.edu].
At this stage of the election, nobody will be allow to register.
Voting deadline is the 30th of November.

## Result

As soon as we have the election results, we’ll publish them.
Elected members will officially be the new officer/board member on the 3rd of December 2021.

## Key Dates

* Sep 20: Nomination and voter registration begin
* Oct 31: Nomination deadline

> * Nov 07: Candidates announced, Registration deadline, voting start

Reviewer: I would give more time here. 1 week might not be enough for confirmations and statements if there are many last minute candidate

Author: Good insight.
I am considering starting reaching out to nominees before the deadline to reduce the last-minute work.
